Once we have covered Dave now let's talk about the inheritance in CSX.
Now please don't be scared of this word.
It's not as scary as it seems.
It basically operates on the principle that whatever styles will gonna be adding for the parent element
in the age the smell the children all month are gonna be inherited unless we specifically style the
children element.
As always I think it's going to be much more easier.
Go over it.
We have the actual code.
First of all make it out of styles that I have here and let's also delete everything that we had so
far in the previous lesson.
So I'm gonna start very simply by working with paragraphs so I'm gonna say there's gonna be two paragraphs
each of them I don't not in words.
So let's do it this way.
I'm going to select them both and I'm going to say you know what.
The first and the second one is just gonna be part of the nugget.
So far so good.
Now I'm gonna head over back to style C assess.
Notice that if I'm gonna style the body and let's add the color red.
What's gonna happen.
Both paragraphs are gonna turn red.
Now why is this happening.
Well you see if we're looking at the body anyone we should already know that body element at the moment
has two children and both of them are paragraph in paragraph number one and paragraph number two.
And what happens is if we're going to add styles to a parent element the children are going to inherit
them.
So as we're styling the body we're ultimately also styling right now the parent.
Now if I'm gonna head over back and let's say that there is gonna be a div and now these two paragraphs
are gonna be sitting within dev and let's start out so I'm gonna copy and paste them for now all of
them are styled the same way.
However if we're gonna say uh that div is gonna have a color of red.
Check this out.
So I'm sorry not red.
Little something different.
Now both paragraphs are blue.
Now why is this happening.
Because even though the div is still the child the body.
Now we specifically say okay for this div there's gonna be a separate star.
So instead of just inheriting everything from body we specifically say okay.
So for day we're gonna have color blue.
So now both paragraphs are actually inheriting from the day.
So in general this is how the inheritance would work.
However if I'm gonna head over and if I'm gonna say that I also like to place a I don't know heading
to and I'm going to say I am hearing and if within the C assess we're gonna have a specific style here
for heading to.
And again this could be a D.
This could be class this could be a simple element selector please understand that there would be no
difference.
And for our case we're just gonna use a simple element like there.
And if we're going then again add a color of green not this notice something interesting.
So now the heading is going to be having only the color of green.
So what I'm trying to explain to you the inheritance is going to work unless you're adding a specific
style for that particular element.
However if something is gonna be sitting here as a child element it will gonna be inherited from the
parent element as you're applying styles to a parent element.